[Music]
well here's a fun weather fact for you
if just one inch of rain fell over an
area of five thousand acres the amount
of water would be enough to fill almost
three and a half million 40 gallon
bathtubs yeah imagine all the bubble
baths but wait the geek in me is now
asking what would happen if all this
rainwater gathered in one gigantic
raindrop and fell to earth well grab
your flotation device because here we go
so it's a stifling day in the middle of
July and you're staying outside trying
to catch a breath of fresh air suddenly
you spot a dark ominous looking cloud
growing on the horizon
finally you think I wouldn't mind a cool
shower but then as the cloud is coming
closer you noticed that it has a bizarre
shape and doesn't look like a regular
cloud for one it's too big for your
liking and secondly it's narrower at the
bottom and spreads wider at the top
suddenly the whole sky turns so dark it
looks like twilight a wind picks up at
first it's just gently ruffling your
hair but soon you have to cover your
eyes to protect them from dust sand and
other debris
the wind is gaining force and now you
have trouble standing straight you don't
know it yet but somewhere up there in
the clouds and imminent danger Heights
ready to strike all the rain storm water
has already gathered into one monstrous
drop weighing hundreds of millions of
tons this drop which is almost a mile
across appears several miles above the
ground where rain usually condenses for
the next few minutes you notice nothing
strange just that dark and threatening
cloud drawing closer but just as you
finally decide to hide inside the
nearest building the drop starts falling
in shock silence you see the bottom of
the cloud bulging downward its widening
and widening and in a few seconds the
bottom side of the gigantic raindrop
dips out of the cloud
you're terrified not only have you never
seen anything like that but you also
realize you don't have time to find
shelter the raindrop is rushing toward
the ground at 200 miles per hour its
outer layer gets whipped up into spray
and turns into foam after mixing with
the air if the ground weren't relatively
close the wind would eventually disperse
even such a huge drop into millions of
raindrops
unfortunately there's no time for that
in just 10 seconds after the drop comes
into view its bottom edge hits the
ground at the moment of impact the water
is already moving at 450 miles per hour
mere seconds before the monstrosity
touches the ground the grass right under
the middle of the drop catches fire this
happens because the air can't rush from
under the falling drop fast enough and
the compression heats it not only
incredibly fast but also to an extreme
temperature but the fire doesn't last
long because almost immediately tons of
cold water extinguishes it and what
would happen to you if you stood right
under the center of the falling drop
well assuming that the drop was
symmetrical the water would just fall
around your body and wouldn't sweep you
away you'd probably have to raise your
hands above your head to streamline your
body and take a deep breath since after
that you'd have to hold your breath for
a long time but to confess it would be
nothing but a miracle if you survived
being hit by a huge mass of water moving
at more than half the speed of sound but
if somehow you did you'd feel pressure
similar to that at a depth of one mile
remember about the diameter of our
raindrop such pressure equals 155
atmospheres so it's 150 times more than
what you feel on land at sea level and
since experiments have shown that the
maximum pressure a person can withstand
is 71 atmospheres well you can probably
imagine the results of getting in the
way of our massive water drop yeah your
new nickname would be pancake but what
if you stood a bit to the side instead
of directly under the center of the
range
still nothing good would come out of it
a super-fast current of water would hit
you and sweep you away in the blink of
an eye it would be impossible to get out
with water surrounding you from all
sides but the worst would be the
acceleration that would make all your
struggle pointless the good news is that
now you can buy that farm but wait what
if for some inexplicable mysterious
reason you'd be floating inside the
enormous raindrop then you'd feel
nothing until the very last moment
complete darkness would surround you if
you decided to swim toward the edge of
the drop you'd start to distinguish some
dim daylight but that's only if your
lungs had enough capacity and you had
enough time to get close to the side you
realize that you're approaching the
ground when your ears start to pop it be
your body's reaction to the increase in
pressure caused by air resistance
unfortunately you wouldn't feel much
after that the shock from the impact
would create immense pressure comparable
to that at the bottom of the Mariana
Trench no chances of survival I'm afraid
so go ahead kick that bucket but let's
return to our initial scenario where
you're standing far away from the
raindrop and watching a real-time horror
movie playing in front of your eyes the
soil simply explodes in the places where
the water hits it but the bedrock
underneath it is unyielding it forces
the water to rush sideways destroying
everything in its path if you're far
enough you still have some time left to
see the water expand outward covering
mile by mile of land sweeping away
houses bridges and roads and ripping up
trees as the rain drop water moves it
also pulls along topsoil in a matter of
minutes all that's left for miles around
is bedrock covered with pools of mud but
the rainwater tsunami just wouldn't stop
it keeps moving outward wiping away
everything within a distance of 20 miles
from the face of the earth boy I can
just see a movie script here hey we'll
call it the doomsday drug catchy huh now
if the drop has fallen in a place
surrounded by mountains there
just prevent the water from spreading
further instead massive streams surged
to rivers and lakes and fill the valleys
hours later areas hundreds of miles away
are suddenly hit by flash flooding the
inhabitants of these regions are
bewildered they know nothing about the
giant raindrop and to them the flood
seems to be an inexplicable weather
phenomenon and indeed science wouldn't
be able to explain this event should it
ever occur luckily you don't have to
worry about something that's never going
to happen on the other hand regular rain
also turns out to be very exciting for
example the largest raindrops ever
recorded fell from the sky in Brazil in
1995 and on the Marshall Islands in 1999
they measured roughly a third of an inch
across now not all rain that departs
from the sky reaches the ground their
so-called phantom rain where raindrops
falling from a cloud evaporate when
they're nearing the Earth's surface it
forms a verga cloud which looks like a
tail extending from a real cloud it's a
common misconception that a raindrop
looks like a teardrop narrower at the
top and wider at the bottom in fact when
a raindrop appears up there in the
atmosphere it has a spherical shape only
when it begins to fall air resistance
flattens and curves the bottom of the
raindrop usually rain starts as snow
clouds consist of teeny crystals of ice
and freezing cold water this water
sticks to ice crystals and falls to the
ground in the form of ice balls but as
they drop closer to the Earth's surface
which is warmer if we don't talk about
winters in North Dakota of course ice
drops melt and turn into rain large
drops of rain fall faster than their
smaller mates the average speed of a
raindrop is 14 miles per hour maybe the
speed isn't as fast as you might have
thought but it's for the better
if rain fell to the ground at a higher
speed it could hit you hard enough to
cause some serious inconvenience anyway
large raindrops can accelerate up to 20
miles per hour that's why it usually
takes such a drop around two minutes to
reach the grain
if it's falling from 2,500 feet which is
where most rain claws hang out but if a
raindrop is smaller it may need up to 7
minutes to fall to the ground if you
should ever skydive through a ring club
you'll find it hurts as you zip through
the rain hitting all the tiny pointy
ends of the raindrops from behind I can
tell you from experience and finally
here's a bonus such precipitation is
heavily featured in a song from the
classic movie western Butch Cassidy and
the Sundance Kid if you know the title
of this song let me know down in the
comments hey that's cheating
alright then who sang it haha alright if
you learned something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend and here are some other videos
I think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]
you